# ANWESHAN-a-mineral-exploration-snake-robot

Introduction

Mineral exploration is the first step before reaching the discovery of profitable economic raw materials. However, it also represents a high risk financially because it is possible that the areas discovered are not economically worthwhile. Therefore, the exploration process is executed in multiple stages. The business of mineral exploration is one of high cost investment especially if it is in rugged mountain areas, which are difficult to reach and has a very high cost of access, consequentially increasing the exploration costs. In today’s market, we have a wide range of metal detectors available from cheap to very high-end ones. But their range of coverage is about 4-8” (10-20 cm) deep. In ideal conditions, a mid-range metal detector can reach 12-18” (30-45 cm) underground. Some specialized detectors can go as deep as 65” (20m). These metal detectors work on a very surface level and understanding the presence and/or amount of minerals in the depth of the mountains becomes hard, thus increasing research, drilling, and man labor costs. To solve this, we propose a remote-controlled robot that will enter a crevice in the mountain. Now, there are two types of minerals available in nature, Metallic and Nonmetallic. For metallic mineral detection, we will interface a metal detector. For nonmetallic minerals, our robot will capture images and also collect samples of the soil to be scientifically tested and examined. This proposed technology has the benefits of minimizing exploration costs, increasing profitability, reducing manpower, increasing efficacy, and selecting targets with confidence and effective fieldwork.
